<pre>
  OLYP: 0006
  Title: Definition of the Olympus Byzantine Fault Tolerant consensus system (THEMIS)
  Author: Enrique Berrueta &lt;eabz@kindynos.mx&gt;
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standard
  Created: 18/Dic/2019
  License: MIT License
</pre>

## Table of Contents

* [Abstract](#abstract)
* [Motivations](#motivations)
* [Problems](#problems)
    * [Byzantine fault](#byzantine-fault)
    * [Double spending](#double-spending)
* [Implemented solutions and flaws](#implemented-solutions-and-flaws)
* [Defining "THEMIS"](#defining-themis)
    * [Definitions](#definitions)
    * [Worker list](#worker-list)
    * [Coin Agnostic](#coin-agnostic)
    * [Chain reorganizations](#chain-reorganizations)
    * [Considerations](#considerations-and-flaws)
* [Implementations](#implementations)
* [Copyright](#copyright)

## Abstract

The Bitcoin revolution has opened a new panorama into the development of digital currencies.

Though, those solutions are very creative and solve actual problems needed for the society to give control to the people of their own financial assets, there are still some flaws on those models and new solutions surge.

This new consensus mechanism aims to solve the major issues over all cryptocurrencies to make sure the user experience and long-term scaling is not an issue. 
    
## Motivations

The development of this consensus model aims to solve two issues. 

1. The currently Proof-of-work consensus mechanism is unsafe for any other coin than Bitcoin, and the Proof-of-Stake is either centralized or unnecessary computationally expensive and difficult to scale on long-term.
2. The development of alternative currencies is highly centralized.

To solve those issues, this system pretends to create a new utxo based consensus mechanism that can coexists with multiple assets within the same chain and is computationally easy to solve and cryptographically secure.

## Problems

Any distributed system that aims to create a network to transact value assets must solve two main issue. Those issues are called the "Byzantine fault" and the "Double Spending".

### Byzantine fault

The Byzantine fault refers to flaw on distributed systems where all the participants of the network must achieve consensus. This is a common flaw on decentralized networks where the communication between participants can be partially or totally wrong, either by a transport issue or by a malicious participant. 

### Double spending

The double spending issue refers to a problem on digital economics where an individual tries to spend the same assets twice on situations or circumstances.

## Implemented solutions and flaws

There are other solutions that will prevent this two issues to happen on a distributed network. 

1. Proof-of-work
2. Proof-of-stake
3. Delegated Proof-of-stake

## Defining "THEMIS"

### Definitions

### Worker list

### Coin Agnostic

### Chain reorganizations

### Considerations and flaws

## Implementations

The current consensus mechanism has two main implementations. 
1. [Ogen (written in golang)](https://github.com/grupokindynos/ogen)
2. [(work-in-progress) Rhea (written in rust)](https://github.com/grupokindynos/rhea)

    

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2019 Grupo Kindynos.  [Licensed under MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)