<pre>
  OLYP: 0002
  Title: Definition of transaction types
  Author: Enrique Berrueta &lt;eabz@kindynos.mx&gt;
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Status: Final
  Type: Standard
  Created: 18/Dic/2019
  License: MIT License
</pre>

## Table of Contents
 
 * [Abstract](#abstract)
 * [Motivations](#motivations)
 * [Definitions](#definitions)
    * [Coin transfer](#coin-transfers)
    * [Workers](#workers)
    * [Governance](#governance)
    * [Votes](#vote)
    * [Users](#users)

     
     
## Abstract

The THEMIS consensus mechanisms require specific data to be allocated on-chain to validate it during the initial blockchain download or the block and transactions broadcast process.  
  
Other protocols use for that data transfer a simply p2p layer that communicates the nodes and use on-chain data to validate that information.

It is strictly necessary for the information to be deterministic and verifiable over time. 

## Motivations

Bitcoin created the first coin-transfer transaction mechanism. This mechanism uses cryptographical proofs of coin ownership to transfer coins between addresses properly. 
Other cryptocurrencies include other on-chain information over the transactions system. Some examples are Ethereum and Dash.

Ethereum uses the transaction system to interact with Smart Contracts, and Dash uses the transaction system to populate the masternode deterministic list (DIP3).

These solutions have demonstrated that on-chain data can is used to establish a consensus system or to store information that can be used by new use-cases.

Towards the development of the Olympus protocol, it is necessary to provide a standard for modulized usage of transactions as a store of information.

## Definitions

Olympus transactions are defined by selecting a type and an action. The transaction type defines the information that is indexed with that specific transaction, and the actions perform operations on the database index.

#### Transaction Types

ID | Type | Index
--- | --- | --- 
1 | Coins | Utxos 
2 | Worker | Workers
3 | Governance | Governance
4 | Votes | Governance
5 | Users | Users
6 | Quorums | Quorums



#### Transaction Actions

ID | Action | Job
--- | --- | --- 
1 | Transfer | Change data ownership
2 | Delete | Delete data from the index
3 | Update | Update existent data on the index.
4 | Create | Add new data to the index.

#### Olympus Transactions

Mixing the types and their possible actions, there are 12 different types of transactions that can be used on the Olympus network.
It is crucial to declare that not all actions can be used on all types. 

ID | Type | Action | Short Name | Operation
---|---|---|---|---
1 | Coins | Transfer | `coin-transfer` | Change the ownership of coins
2 | Coins | Create | `coin-create` | Create new coins (Coinbase transaction)
4 | Worker | Create | `worker-create` | Create a new worker to the index
5 | Worker | Update | `worker-update` | Update a worker on the list
6 | Worker | Delete | `worker-delete` | Delete a worker from the list
7 | Governance | Create | `gov-create` | Create a new governance proposal
8 | Governance | Delete | `gov-delete` | Remove a governance proposal
9 | Vote | Create | `vote-create` | Create a vote object on the list
10 | Vote | Update | `vote-update` | Update a vote to a certain proposal
11 | Vote | Delete | `vote-delete` | Delete a vote from a proposal
12 | User | Create | `user-create` | Create a new user to the list
13 | User | Update | `user-update` | Update the user information
14 | User | Delete | `user-delete` | Delete the user from the list
15 | Quorums | Create | `quorum-create` | Create a new worker quorum
16 | Quorums | Update | `quorum-update` | Update a worker quorum

### Specifications

All the transactions should be constructed using the same information model. These transactions should include a dynamic field for additional data called `payload.`

#### Transaction basic information

 Name | Type | Usage 
---|---|---
 Time | int64 | Transaction time
 TxVersion | int32 | Version of the transaction.
 TxType | int32 | Selected transaction type.
 TxAction | int32 | Selected action.
