<pre>
  OLYP: 0004
  Title: Block and Transactions verifications flow.
  Author: Enrique Berrueta &lt;eabz@kindynos.mx&gt;
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Status: Final
  Type: Standard
  Created: 18/Dic/2019
  License: MIT License
</pre>

## Table of Contents

 * [Abstract](#abstract)
 * [Motivations](#motivations)
 * [Verification Scenarios](#verification-scenarios)

 
### Abstract

The Olympus protocol verification system standards need to be clarified to prevent skipping validations of critical things.

Since verifications are done using pairing cryptographic tools, we must ensure all data is present on the signatures.

These verifications enable the network to scale on user experience and data capacity levels. 

### Motivations

One of the most important requirements for public distributed systems is the decentralization of them. This decentralization requires a high amount of users to get the public database on their local machines to contribute to the network.

Since the creation of the Bitcoin, there has been much discussion on how the user experience can be improved, so the user doesn't need to be a tech specialist to use it.

The current situation is tough since an average user must download the entire blockchain, consuming a lot of space and computational power to verify each transaction. Instead of that, users have preferred to use services like "lightwallets", technically known as Simplified Payment Verification (SPV). 

The problem with SPV is that they can't be trusted on its own, relying on a 3rd trustable, which removes all the meaning on the Satoshi Nakamoto vision of the Bitcoin.

With the development of cryptography, new ways of verifying large amounts of information have been developed.

One of the best solutions is the pairing cryptography, specifically the [Boneh–Lynn–Shacham](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boneh%E2%80%93Lynn%E2%80%93Shacham) signatures scheme.

Using this new signature scheme can improve a lot the user experience and data validation to increase adoption towards cryptocurrencies.

### Verification steps

For each transactions there are two main steps that must be verified for a single element or in bulk for faster verification.

1. Match verifications: This verifies signatures are used using on-chain data. This step always verifies received data agains each node indexed data. This step is always the first step.
2. Signature verifications: This verifies signatures are properly signed using the correct Private Key.

### Verification Scenarios

#### Blocks Verification

Verification | -
---|---
Chain Sync | [Specifications](olyp-0004/blocks/chain-sync.md)
New Block | [Specifications](olyp-0004/blocks/new-block.md)

#### Transactions Verification

Type | Action | -
---|---|---
Coins | Transfer | [Specifications](olyp-0004/coins/coin-transfers.md)
Coins | Create | [Specifications](olyp-0004/coins/coin-create.md)
Worker | Create/Update | [Specifications](olyp-0004/workers/worker-create.md)
Worker | Delete | [Specifications](olyp-0004/workers/worker-delete.md)
Governance | Create | [Specifications](olyp-0004/gov/governance-create.md)
Governance | Delete | [Specifications](olyp-0004/gov/governance-create.md)
Vote | Create/Update | [Specifications](olyp-0004/votes/vote-create.md)
Vote | Delete | [Specifications](olyp-0004/votes/vote-delete.md)
User | Create | [Specifications](olyp-0004/users/user-create.md)
User | Update | [Specifications](olyp-0004/users/user-update.md)
User | Delete | [Specifications](olyp-0004/users/user-delete.md)
Quorums | Create | [Specifications](olyp-0004/quorum/quorum-create.md)
Quorums | Update | [Specifications](olyp-0004/quorum/quorum-delete.md)




## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2020 Grupo Kindynos.  [Licensed under MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
